# L

L10N
: → Localization

Lambda abstraction
: → Anonymous function

Lambda expression
: → Anonymous function

LAMP
: → Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP/Perl/Python

Landing page
: A single web page that appears in response to clicking on a search engine optimized search result, marketing promotion, marketing email, or an online advertisement. The landing page will usually display directed sales copy that is a logical extension of the advertisement, search result, or link. Landing pages are used for lead generation. The actions that a visitor takes on a landing page is what determines an advertiser’s conversion rate. A landing page may be part of a microsite or a single page within an organization’s main web site.&nbsp;[†](#w-landing-page)

Language
: → Markup language
: → Programming language

Last In, First Out
: → Stack

Latency
: A time interval between the stimulation and response, or, from a more general point of view, a time delay between the cause and the effect of some physical change in the system being observed. Latency is physically a consequence of the limited velocity with which any physical interaction can propagate. The magnitude of this velocity is always less than or equal to the speed of light. Therefore, every physical system with any physical separation (distance) between cause and effect will experience some sort of latency, regardless of the nature of stimulation that it has been exposed to.&nbsp;[†](#w-latency)

Launch
: The (usually public) release of a new software or hardware product.

Layout
: The part of graphic design that deals in the arrangement of visual elements on a (web) page. It generally involves organizational principles of composition to achieve specific communication objectives. The high-level page layout involves deciding on the overall arrangement of text and images, and possibly on the size or shape of the medium. Layout requires intelligence, sentience, and creativity, and is informed by culture, psychology, and what the document authors and editors wish to communicate and emphasize.&nbsp;[†](#w-layout)

Layout engine
: → Browser engine

Layout table
: An HTML table used not for intended functional purposes (for tabular data), but for layout. Using tables for layout is a popular web design method from the 90s and early 2000s that is mostly antiquated.

Lazy loading
: A design pattern commonly used in computer programming to defer initialization of an object until the point at which it is needed. It can contribute to efficiency in the program’s operation if properly and appropriately used. The opposite of lazy loading is eager loading. This makes it ideal in use cases where network content is accessed and initialization times are to be kept at a minimum, such as in the case of web pages.&nbsp;[†](#w-lazy-loading)

LDAP
: → Lightweight Directory Access Protocol

Lead Time
: The latency between the initiation and completion of a process. For example, the lead time between the placement of an order and delivery of new cars by a given manufacturer might be between 2 weeks and 6 months, depending on various particularities. One business dictionary defines “manufacturing lead time” as the total time required to manufacture an item, including order preparation time, queue time, setup time, run time, move time, inspection time, and put-away time.&nbsp;[†](#w-lead-time)

Lean
: A business methodology that aims to provide a new way to think about how to organize human activities to deliver more benefits to society and value to individuals while eliminating waste. The term “lean thinking” was coined by James P. Womack and Daniel T. Jones to capture the essence of their in-depth study of Toyota’s fabled Toyota Production System. Lean thinking is a way of thinking about an activity and seeing the waste inadvertently generated by the way the process is organized. It uses the concepts of value, value streams, and flow.&nbsp;[†](#w-lean)

Left-to-Right
: A script in which writing starts from the left of a page and continues to the right.&nbsp;[†](#w-rtl)

Less
: A dynamic preprocessor style sheet language that can be compiled into Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and run on the client side or server side. The indented syntax of Less is a nested metalanguage, as valid CSS is valid Less code with the same semantics. Less provides the following mechanisms: variables, nesting, mixins, operators and functions; the main difference between Less and other CSS precompilers being that Less allows real-time compilation via less.js by the browser. Less was first released in 2009.&nbsp;[†](#w-less) ℹ︎&nbsp;[lesscss.org](http://lesscss.org/)

LESS
: → Less

LIFO
: → Last In, First Out

Library
: @@

Ligature
: @@

Light Mode
: @@

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
: @@

Line box
: A line (rectangular area) formed by inline boxes.

Line end
: @@

Line feed
: @@

Lines of Code
: @@

Link
: A reference from one web resource to another web resource, made by an anchor.

Linked Data
: Structured data which is interlinked with other data so it becomes more useful through semantic queries. It builds upon standard Web technologies such as HTTP, RDF and URIs, but rather than using them to serve web pages only for human readers, it extends them to share information in a way that can be read automatically by computers. Part of the vision of linked data is for the Internet to become a global database.&nbsp;[†](#w-ld)

Linux
: @@

Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP/Perl/Python
: @@

Liquid
: @@

Literal
: @@

Little’s Law
: @@

LOC
: → Lines of Code

Local
: → Local scope

Local-part
: The first part of an email address. It may use any of the following ASCII characters: uppercase and lowercase Latin letters “A” to “Z” and “a” to “z”; digits “0” to “9”; the printable characters “!”, “#”, “$”, “%”, “&”, “'”, “*”, “+”, “-”, “/”, “=”, “?”, “^”, “_”, “`”, “{”, “|”, “}”, and “~”; and dots (“.”), provided that a dot is not the first or last character unless quoted, and provided also that it does not appear consecutively unless quoted (e.g. jane..doe@example.com is not allowed, but "jane..doe"@example.com is).&nbsp;[†](#w-email-address)

Local scope
: @@

Local variable
: @@

Locale
: @@

Localization
: The process of adapting internationalized software for a specific region or language by translating text and adding locale-specific components. Localization (which is potentially performed multiple times, for different locales) uses the infrastructure or flexibility provided by internationalization (which is ideally performed only once before localization, or as an integral part of ongoing development).&nbsp;[†](#w-i18n-l10n)

Loop
: @@

Lossless
: @@

Lossy
: @@

LTR
: → Left-to-Right

Lynx
: @@

T> Is something important missing, or did you find a mistake? Please [share your thoughts](https://github.com/j9t/web-development-glossary/blob/master/manuscript/l.md) and become a glossary&nbsp;contributor!